## Interview Prep 
#### recursive crying

1. Tell me a little bit about yourself?
I graduated with a degree in psychology. I started that career by working with patients in brain damage and other neurological or degenerative diseases. After a few years I started to step away from psychology and started family. I rejoined the work force working by working in sales and recently switched over to working in IT. For the last few years I have been persuing an education in programming and computer science because I have always had a great interest in programming and it was my initial major in college before switching.
1. What kind of work environment are you looking for in the next opportunity you take?
I am looking for an inclusive work environment. I work great with a team or alone. I can easily take on leadership roles or work as a cohesive team. 
3. What are your strengths and weaknesses as a developer? 
My strengths are my ability to relate and talk to people about technical things in a nontechnical way. My weakness is asking for help, I really want to master things things and be taken seriously and sometimes it's tough to say 'hey, I need help' or 'I'm having a tough time with this'
4. Tell me about a group project that you are passionate about?
I get pretty excited about working with any group. I like working with a diverse group of people and seeing what they bring to the table and what I can learn from them. I have worked on groups where the project itself wasn't that interesting but the people in the group all worked really hard to make it happen regardless. I like being part of that drive and that determination even if I don't get to see a finished product. My last group we worked on a groomers project which isn't deeply interesting but working with the mapbox API's and new libraries is what made the project more interesting. Seeing and working through the issues as a team was great as we understood why things weren't working and try to research the fix for the issues. 
5. Where do you see yourself in 3-5 years? 
I see myself working my way to senior development or devops type roles. I only see myself progressing as I learn more each year. 

Questions:1.Tell me a little bit about yourself?2.What kind of work environment are you looking for in the next opportunity you take?3.What are your strengths and weaknesses as a developer?4.Tell me about a group project that you are passionate about?5.Where do you see yourself in 3-5 years?6.How would your co-workers describe you?7.Tell me about a time where you and your teammates did not agree?8.Why should we hire you?9.What's your dream job?10.Can you explain why you changed career paths?11.How do you deal with pressure or stressful situations?12.What would your first 30, 60, or 90 days look like in this role?13.What are your salary requirements?14.Give an example of a goal you reached and tell me how you achieved it15.Have you ever made a mistake? How did you handle it?16.When you worked on multiple projects how did you prioritize?17.Have you had to convince a team to utilize a tool/language they weren't thrilled about?How did you do it?18.Have you ever had a project that had to change drastically while it was in progress?Why? How did you do it?19.Tell me about a major setback you’ve had. How did you deal with it?20.Describe the internet to someone who just woke up from a 30-year coma. (Brain teaser)Answers:1.They need to answer this question with their Elevator pitch: (past - their background,present - how they found Lambda what they're learning at Lambda a good time tohumblebrag about technical skills, future - tie in background and new skills to talk aboutpotential future job)2.Be specific, know about what you want in terms of company culture, size, mentor,etc...try to rope in some specifics about the company (you should have somebackground on them)3.First way to answer this question is to name a weakness that's not really a weakness i.e.- "I'm too much of a perfectionist" etc... Second way is to actually provide a weaknessbut then without being prompted provide how you're going to FIX the weakness4.First talk about what the function of the project is (high level) Make sure they mentionhow the group put the project together (up sale your tech skills again), BUT don't forgetto talk about YOUR individual contribution
5.Have a specific answer, show you've done your research KNOW where you want to be,know what the career progression for a software engineer is.6.Up sell your soft skills here, be careful about being overly arrogant sounding or toocheesy.7.Again anytime you provide an obstacle or any kind of negative - make sure they alsoprovide how they fixed it or a solution8.Another good opportunity to up sale your tech/soft skills - you should have an idea ofwhat the job description is that you’re interviewing for so rope in some of thosequalifications here - Your job here is to craft an answer that covers three things: that youcan not only do the work, you can deliver great results; that you'll really fit in with theteam and culture; and that you'd be a better hire than any of the other candidates.9.Break it down into three parts, like this: What Skills Do You Want to Use? What InterestsYou? What Are Your Values?10.Explain to the hiring manager why you've made the career decisions you have. Moreimportantly, give a few examples of how your past experience is transferable to the newrole. This doesn't have to be a direct connection; in fact, it's often more impressive whena candidate can make seemingly irrelevant experience seem very relevant to the role. Butalso SHOW YOUR PASSION FOR ENGINEERING!11.A great approach is to talk through your go-to stress-reduction tactics (making theworld's greatest to-do list, stopping to take 10 deep breaths), and then share an exampleof a stressful situation you navigated with ease.12.Start by explaining what you'd need to do to get ramped up. What information would youneed? What parts of the company would you need to familiarize yourself with? Whatother employees would you want to sit down with? Next, choose a couple of areas whereyou think you can make meaningful contributions right away. (e.g., “I think a great starterproject would be diving into your email marketing campaigns and setting up a trackingsystem for them.”)13.You should always start off by saying you’re more interested in the opportunity and if it’sthe right one you’re willing to be flexible - you don’t have to give them a number rightthen and there. IF they are pushing you for an actual # then the #1 rule of answering thisquestion is doing your research on what you should be paid by using sites likeGlassdoor. Formula to use: walk away rate + 10k and a 20k range from there: 60k + 10k= 70k so the range would be 70k-90k. Then, make sure the hiring manager knows thatyou're flexible. You're communicating that you know your skills are valuable, but that youwant the job and are willing to negotiate14.Time to humble brag about yourself a bit - use the STAR method here, tell them about asituation/obstacle/challenge you had in terms of a goal - tell them how you went aboutsystematically breaking this down as if you were an engineer piece by piece, then tellthem the results.15.Another one of those questions where they rope you into saying something negative -just remember give them a genuine mistake but even if they don’t ask you how you fixedit - tell them anyway - think like an engineer ALWAYS provide a solution or a way to asolution
16.Again this is a specific Engineer type question, use your common sense, tell them abouttrello boards and how you make lists, break things into pieces, your specific way ofprioritizing - there’s no right or wrong answer they just want to see your thought process17.This is where you show your FAIR leadership skills. You want to show that you came upwith a democratic way to share your ideas, i.e. we had everyone sit down and share whythey each thought this tool/language would be best, I brought the best and mostefficient solution to the table, I won majority vote, etc...18.Put your Engineer hat on, this is where you can show them you can be ADAPTABLE,make it known you did not stress about having to change things you simply found a wayto come up with the best solution in your time crunch19.This doesn’t have to be related to Engineering at all, but keep in mind they want to seehow you handle challenges/stress remember always provide a solution if you have toprovide a problem/challenge/obstacle. Highlight some soft skills here, calm in the faceor pressure, leadership, time management, etc...20.You may get weird brain teasers like this - remember they don’t actually need the rightanswer they’re trying to see how your mind works, be creative, think like an Engineer - betechnical if it’s a technology related question, show your personality here a bit :)